Hello and welcome in this lecture.
We are going to be doing well leaving our actor very barren indeed as you can see here.
It does very little other than take and do some input binding and set up its components.
So basically and if we look in the C++ the C++ is doing a very bare minimum.
Here's the input binding.
Here is the trick which is doing basically have some debug stuff and we're just setting it to replicate
and setting up our components and replicator which is exactly what we're doing in this lecture creating
that replicator component so that we can take out some of the gubbins to do with replication.
Let's dive in and see how we can do that.
OK.
So in the last lecture we dealt with the movement component and unsurprisingly in this lecture as you'd
probably guess from the title we are going to be dealing with the replication component instead.
Okay so let's go ahead and give that a shot.
Let's have a go at creating a replication component where we know what the first step is.
There's no particular surprise there we're going to get add new new C++ class and again select an active
component again because it doesn't need to have a transform and we are going to call it the go cart.
Movement a replication component bit of a mouthful but we don't have name spaces in on real So how do
we have to make these long names.
Otherwise we'd put this under the namespace for go kart and that would be fairly straightforward.
In fact you'll notice here that you've also on top of that insult of not having name spaces.
Got to keep your class names under 32 characters which is really hard to hear what we're going to do
is just called this the go cart movement replicator make area so we gonna go ahead and create that class.
Okay and with a movement replicator in hand let's go ahead and get ourselves.
What are we going to do.
Well we're going to move across the go cart.
A few things from go cart dot H.
But before we do that there is one caveat with a component is that by default it will not replicate
unlike the actor where things on the actor particularly propertys that have got replication on them
where I'm looking for one in particular yes replicated using for service state.
This one will replicate by default because an actor is set to replicate but components on an actor that
is set to replicate will not replicate.
By default you need to both have the actor set to replicate and the components set to replicate.
So let me just show you this by going in to the blueprint definition for our class.
Let's go over up to the root of the crazy cart asset and go into the BP go cart.
Open up that BP go cart and bring it into the main pane of the editor.
And if we go and have a look at this then looking at the go kart level and looking at the details pane
we are going to look for replication which there is a whole section on and it says that here we've got
replicates movement and also just replicates his set.
So this act of will replicate but as we've seen before you don't have this check.
The actor will not even be considered for replication.
Now let's have a look at our movement of component.
If we go and have a look at the moon component and expand it out because it's collapsed up like this
because we don't edit anywhere.
And of course you've probably been shouting at the screen the whole time telling me that with components
it's better to do visible anywhere.
Well let's go over to our go cart Don H and change that moving component from anywhere to visible anywhere
because that way it won't allow us to try and repoint it let's build it and see that's corrected the
error.
Quick reminder for those of you who may have forgotten what this means is that edits anywhere would
have allowed us to change the component being pointed to which isn't what we want we don't want to be
able to edit that pointer.
We do however want to be able to see the contents of that pointer and that shows up differently in the
editor in unreel.
So if we go over there and select that movement component now you can see that we don't have that dropdown.
We've just got all the properties of the human component which is what we want to have.
You'll notice that in here we have a property called component replication that says component replicates
and it's currently set to false and that is the default.
So that's what we're going to have to change.
We are going to want it to have enabled replication.
So let's go ahead.
First of all and in a go cart cpe we are going to create this default object.
So I'm going to have to first create a visible anywhere you property and is going to have to include.
I'm going to have to include first of all the go cart movement replicator.
So at the top just under the go cart movement component include the go carts.
Movement replicate.
H.
And we are going to change moving component to movement replicator.
And change go cart Movent component here in that type as well to replicator.
So and then in our C++ in the constructer we can copy this creative force subobject and change out all
the components for replicators.
In fact I should just copied this.
That's what I do now.
So it's going to be movement replicator is an instance of the movement replicated type.
And the name of it is going to be a movement replicator as well as build that and see if we get that
object in an editor case so back over to visual studio where the bill has clearly finished got a moving
component and movement replicator and you can see the movement replicator isn't replicating.
So let's fix that and we know we can change the OR.
Where in the constructor so goats Luke Movent replicators constructer And here well we could actually
try to guess what the property is actually called those component replicates.
Let's see if we can find such a property.
Go to Visual Studio component.
Replicates.
Nope.
Maybe just replicates.
There is a set is replicated here and I think that is the one we want.
So we're going to do that set.
It's replicated in our construct go ahead and build.
You can also check this in the documentation linked here about component application.
It talks a little bit more about that how we've got this check box and also so that we can do the set
is replicated.
So let's head on back to the real editor and select our component Movent replicator and as you can see
it hasn't checked the compound replicates but it has changed the default if we reset a default if we
hadn't created this in the blueprint already then you would have seen that component rep case would
have come in as checked by default.
Obviously we can always turn this property off at any point but we aren't going to want to do that are
we.
So that's going to be its default for this particular component.
Hooray.
So the next step is to move the member declaration's cross.
I'm going to do that is not going to make it part of the challenge.
But if you feel comfortable with knowing what we're going to move across into this replicate component
then by all means pause now and have a go and then come back for the challenge definition.
OK.
So I'm going to move ahead.
Plough on.
Go to our go cart dot H.
And I'm going to be bringing some more things out.
Or we're going to be taking out everything to do with reparation basically.
So we got this acknowledged moves.
I'm going to take that out and move that into the movement replicator as a private member.
Like so.
So locklair moves.
What next.
Got to go cart dot H.
We're going to go to Kate these server functions.
They can come across server state.
It can come across on rep.
Yep unacknowledged moves.
Yes that can come across too.
And that pretty much leaves some very very little in our actor which is just what I wanted to see.
So let's stick these in the private section let's fix up the indentation from the you properties and
the U functions that's gone awry and save that.
And the next step is going to be up to you to move the function implementations just as we did before.
So the change is very similar to refactor you know pull across the method implementations change the
class namespace is proof exacta functions and and Spicks the references in the go cart that cbp and
create an excesses you need and fix any bill there.
So possibly.
And have a go.
Okay welcome back hopefully this was fairly straightforward.
It's very similar to the challenge in the last lecture so you probably got a little bit of practice
by now.
So we are going to the C++ file something that's slightly different here is we are going to need to
change get lifetime replicated properties that wasn't actually in the head file because it gets auto
generated for us but we are going to need it.
I'm going to pull that across then.
Get in some text just debug stuff we're gonna leave it in the actor.
What about all the contents of tic.
Now you have a look at this you can see the contents of tic you're actually doing a heck of a lot about
replication.
So what I'm actually going to do is take this whole thing this whole shebang and cut it and bring it
across.
So tick on actor it's going to be doing very little.
But at the replicator take he is going to be doing all that job of actually replicating.
Okay.
That seems good.
Let's go to the go hotsy Keaton continue the stripping job so we've got this on.
Rep. CLAY acknowledged moves so fast just to unwrap.
By scrolling down.
Be happy.
Then we got clear acknowledged moves.
Cut that out.
Put that in as well.
Then we've got some binding staff.
And then we've got the server.
Our P.S. stuff which when I move over to the BPP as well.
Okay so that's good we've moved everything across.
Let's go ahead and build and see what an error has be.
Hopefully there will be not too many but I think there will be a fair few because we have changed a
fair bit so actor by the way is looking really thin and nice that's what I like.
Actors should be mostly made out of components and not be too heavy itself.
Although if you go and look at the engine code you will see that the Unreal Engine doesn't really follow
this necessarily.
There are some very very happy acting classes in there.
I prefer to move things as much as possible in two components.
Now I'm noticing something right off the bat which is going to be problematic and that is it.
The ego can't move isn't visible here in the component replicator So we are going to have to include.
Our Go Cart movement component header in the movement replicator header told do that.
That should help things out a little bit more.
So F go cart move is going to work.
And there will be another issue which is the go cart state.
Just thinking ahead a little bit here we could actually follow the build her errors first because that's
going to look at the BUILD errors talking about the unrecognized type ego state which is exactly what
I was about to say.
I'm kind of pre-empting it a little bit.
The ego can't state it does not have and the Go can't date is something to do with replication.
So really it should come out of the go cart.
H.
And we should move that across in to how replicator dot H instead ha I just notice something.
If you do a controlled shift V in Visual Studio then it doesn't try and reformat the text so we don't
get any issues with you property formatting and being mucked up which is great.
So I'm going to do that from now.
So we move that across that should at least help with the go carts state error that we were having previously.
Let's go ahead and build again see what the next area.
Let's have a look at the output.
And lots of areas.
Let's go up to the first such error.
Okay so now we're actually having errors in the replicator dot C++.
So here it's not being able to find references such as the reference to the movement component for example.
So to populate this movement component what I'm going to do is I'm actually going to create.
First of all a property point of property here in the go cart movement replicator.
And it's just going to be a new property.
And is going to be a property that is a you go cart movement component point.
Which is unsurprisingly going to be called movement component.
So and then this moon component we can go ahead and set in begin play big in play when everything is
constructed and everything's hunky dory then we can go to create this MoveOn compound.
But what are we going to set it to.
Well we're going to have to do a find component by class.
Which by the way here is the documentation for that fine component my class is a method on a actor.
So we need to do with this find component by class call up to the owner.
So let's go back to visual studio and we're going to do a get on a harrow.
Find component.
By class.
And then we are going to put the type argument of that class which is going to be the you go can't move
component like so.
And that's pretty much do the trick.
That seems to be complaining Well let's go ahead and build and see whether that complaint remains.
So we've got many errors but that one is no longer one of them.
So I think we've fixed the issue with the movement component.
Next up we have at this role being undeclared now actually the component does have a get role I believe
so we can do a get on a roll.
And that without having to do get ona it's just a little short cut which is nice.
So we can replace that in a few places where we've used role how to get remote role has no such nicety.
So he has to get owner.
Harrogate get role instead which should work just fine.
Now complaining but we'll see whether that fixes itself and then get owner again.
We need to do with this it's him.
It's a proxy I notice.
We could have done a switch statement here.
We almost could do a switch statement except for this logic here which is why we're not doing a switch
statement just in case you're wondering now how about this a go cart business.
Well we need to find and replace that don't we find replace a go cart we're that not you Movement component
but you Movement replicator in said let's do that six occurrences replaced which looks good.
Okay.
And what up next.
So we've got the get owner done let's go ahead and build because we made a fairly sizable change one
to see what they build there as are now.
So the first error we get is about the you go cart movement replicator illegal use of this type as an
expression but you'll notice that underneath that it does say that do read the lifetime identify is
not found.
So it looks like we've gone include missing from our go cart copy.
And sure enough in here we've got that unreel networking header which we will probably need in our replicator
seeing as it's all to do with networking.
So let's go ahead and build again.
Okay so now it's looking like we're on home turf.
So we've got this set actor transform which I'm fairly sure we can just do a get owner.
Arrow with and I think for the next thing we are going to be in the same position because the next one
is the get transform which can also do a Get on Arrow for and that looks like the end of those errors
so let's go ahead and build and see whether that is actually the end of the errors.
Okay a bit unhappy that unreal seems to have crashed with that comp. But let's just close that that's
their error.
Probably our own fault and launch it up again.
I think it was just a transient error because we had the blueprint open and we'd updated a few properties
of it and so on and so on.
But if it was a transient error we will soon find out where we.
Hey so it's opened up without crashing which is always a good thing.
So let's go ahead and open up the blueprint class again in fact.
No need.
It seems to have built successfully.
I've kind of missed that in the fact that it crashed.
So we actually got to the stage of it successfully building.
So now that it has successfully built I'm going to refresh the visual studio project file so that we've
got all the rinse with leaves disappear.
That should happen.
And just like so well as me to reload and things like the squid he's under get ona seemed to should
hopefully disappear because now we have updated all that includes and various things that we needed.
And let's go ahead and hit play and see whether it's going to work now.
So I'm going to put my autonomous proxy on the right the server on the left and drive the server round
came all looking good so we can see it replicated to the autonomous proxy.
Let's go and do the same thing with the autonomous proxy's seems to drive around.
He's not just a ring.
So our.
Autonomous proxy replication code is working we can try them out with a latency as well so let's go
with net lag on thousand like we've done previously and keep driving around.
So far not jumping back in front of our simulated proxy yet that happened one second later.
More or less.
So everything seems to be working just as it was before except now we have it nicely refactored into
two separate components.
The replicator and the movement component and you can see that the actor is doing a bear very little.
In fact great stuff.
So I will leave it there.
And in the next lecture we'll be looking at how we can do the following.
The finishing touches they polishing off on these components.
I see there.